Originally I designed DOUG to solve problems I was encountering when making contracts which were too complex to be a single contract. Namely the problem is how can you reliably set up communication in large multi-contract clusters. Do you hardcode the addresses? How do you deal with circular depandancies? Etc. 

At its heart. DOUG-the-Contract is Basically a name registry for contracts. With one important distinction. The name isn't "owned" by the contract, Intsead the name is requested by the contract and the contract serves the role of the name. Decissions on which contracts can get which names and when a contract serving a name should be replaced with a newer contract to serve that name falls to DOUG. (skeleton/kernel)

The rules by which DOUG can decide who gets what names can range from completely dependant upon a single "dictator" (practically this is a developer) to requiring some sort of consensus to be reached in the community. DOUG-the-philosphy to DAO design is that DOUG handles the structure of contracts in a manner which allows for contract to be modular and refer to requirements they have by name. Allowing DOUG to decide what the current structure should be and the rules by which it can change. Infact the contracts which specify the rules are themselves upgradable. Allowing DOUG-the-contract to be as general as possible.

So practically DOUG is extremely useful for building large complex DAOs off of since you do not necessarily need to have the whole thing built at once infact you can build it in modular chunks and build the DAO in parts. And also upgrade parts as time goes on. So a useful design philosophy in itself. But thats not why I built it and am continuing to work on improvements for implementations of it.

My Goal was to have a platform which makes if easy to have the community of a Dapp or DAO become a integral part of its functioning, its growth and development. In essence I wanted a platform which would allow DAOs to grow and evolve to fit the needs and desires of the community using it. There has been some disagreement wether or not this is a DAO exactly. A better term might be Evolutionary Decentralized Community. But in my opinion this is the future of governance where it becomes an opensource project in essence. DOUG can be used as a community controled version control system for governance systems where everyone can participate in many different ways to help grow the DOUG-Cluster and the community in the direction they desire.